







Return on Investment (ROI) Calculator - Online Demat, Trading, and Mutual Fund Investment in India - Fisdom







































 












Skip to content



















Products







                          Stocks
                        








                          IPOs & more
                        








                          Mutual Funds
                        









                          Pension Funds
                        




Private Wealth

Resources







                          Research
                        








                        One Percent Academy
                        








                          Blogs
                        








                          Calculators
                        





Company







                          About us
                        








                          Careers
                        








                          Contact us
                        







Login
Download app















Blog 

 Calculators 







Calculators











 

 




 







 


Return on Investment (ROI) Calculator




Deepak 

Written by - Deepak 




February 21, 2022						
						6 minutes					






















 
Every investor does investments with the sole purpose of earning higher returns and maximizing their wealth. The returns generated on the investment vary based on various factors like the type of investment, its volatility, the degree of risk involved, the demand of the investment product, its liquidity, etc. While starting an investment, we always hear about the approximate or exact percentage of returns it can generate over a period of time. However, what it means in actual terms is what matters to the investors ultimately. For this, investors have to understand the meaning of the term return on investment and its formula at the same time the use of calculators to effectively calculate the same.
What is the return on investment?
Return on investment is a financial ratio or a metric used to measure the returns generated by investment and its value. It can also be used as an effective tool to compare an investment in terms of returns with other investments to choose between two or more competing investment options. This is quite helpful in situations where the cost of the investment may be similar and the returns can determine which is a better investment option for the investors. ROI can be used effectively to measure returns generated by fixed-income investments or investments that may not provide consistent returns. 
What is the formula to calculate return on investment?
ROI is the measurement or the ratio between the net profits or returns from an investment and the total initial investment or the cost of investment. ROI can be measured in the following ways


Annualized returns 


The formula to calculate ROI based on annualized returns is,
ROI = [(End value of investment/ Initial value of investment) ^ (1/n)] – 1.
This is a better way of comparing investment as it accounts for the time factor or the period of investment which is crucial for evaluating the overall performance of an investment.


Net profit or net income method 


The net income method is the basic computation of ROI where the net value generated at the end of the investment is compared to the cost of investment and represented in the form of a percentage. According to this method, 
ROI = (Net income or gains from investment/ Cost of investment) * 100


Capital gains method 


This is an elaborate version of the net income method to calculate ROI. The formula to calculate ROI as per the capital gains method is mentioned below.
ROI = [Final value of investment – Initial value of investment)/Cost of investment]*100
What is the return on investment calculator?
The above formula may seem difficult for a few investors to understand and compute. In order to ease this process, the investors can use the ROI calculators. ROI calculators are a tool available on many websites and it helps in calculating the return that is generated on any investment. To use this tool, the investors simply need to provide the necessary input and the exact ROI on the investment is computed within seconds of providing such inputs. This tool can help the investors know the returns in absolute terms as well as provide the CAGR of the investment.
How to use the Fisdom  ROI calculator?
The Fisdom  website also provides the ROI calculator which can be found under the tab ‘Resources’ on the homepage of the website. The inputs needed for calculating the ROI using the Fisdom  ROI calculator are,

Invested Amount – The amount invested in any investment
Amount Returned – The amount returned at the end of the investment tenure
Investment Period – The period of investment

After providing the above inputs, the Fisdom  ROI calculator will immediately display the return on investment along with other key details like the absolute return on the investment as well as the CAGR of the investment.   
What are the benefits of the return on investment calculator?
The benefits of using an ROI calculator are highlighted below.


Ease of access and calculation


The Fisdom  ROI calculator is an online tool hence it can be used any time and anywhere by simply visiting the website and selecting the tool. This calculator helps in reducing the time and efforts of the users in calculating the returns on any investment thereby speeding the decision-making process.


Evaluation of the profitability of the investment 


Thie ROI calculator helps in evaluating the profitability or the viability of an investment option that may seem lucrative on paper but needs a thorough analysis. This tool is especially helpful for novice investors and helps them in creating a pr0ofitable investment portfolio.


Multiple calculations 


The Fisdom  ROI calculator can be used multiple times without any restrictions and can be used by altering different paramaters as well. This will help the investors in deciding the optimum cost of investment and their target returns in a better manner. 


Comparison between two or more potential investments


The Fisdom  ROI calculator is an excellent tool for evaluating or comparing two or more investment options. This tool will not only help the investors get the returns on investment in absolute terms but also the CAGR (Compounded Annual Growth Rate). This helps in the decision-making process and ultimately choosing the investment that can yield better returns thereby meeting the ultimate goal of maximizing the returns of the investor.
Conclusion
ROI calculator is a very important tool for the evaluation of an investment in terms of the returns generated by investing in it over a specific period of time. This tool can ease the ROI calculation process and provide 100% accurate and prompt results within seconds.  
FAQs
 Can the ROI calculator be used multiple times? Yes, ROI calculator can be used multiple times also by altering the inputs to compare between two or more investment options.  What are the results generated by the ROI calculator?  The results generated by the FInity ROI calculator includes the,Total gainsGains percentageCAGR  Why is annualized ROI a better representation o the return on investment? The annualized returns formula accounts for the period of investment thereby providing the actual returns after accounting for the time value. Hence, they are a better mode of comparison even in the case of investment options having a varied period of investment.  




Share the article

 

 




 







 

 










					Get exclusive content
					and expert advice
				
Subscribe to fisdom to get regular updates in the finance world delivered to your inbox each month






Subscribe




				Fisdom Story
			





Popular CalculatorsCAGR Calculator 2023
Compound Interest Calculator
FD Calculator
Gratuity Calculator – Simple Gratuity Calculation Online 2023
HRA Calculator
Free Online Tax Calculator for 2023-24 for Income Tax Slabs, – New vs Old Regime
Lumpsum Calculator
Fisdom NPS Calculator: Best free online tool for pension & annuity planning in India
Employee Provident Fund (EPF) Calculator Online
Online PPF Calculator 2023-24 – Calculate return for your PPF Account at current interest rate
RD Calculator
Retirement Calculator
SIP Calculator
Step Up SIP Calculator – Invest in Mutual Funds
SWP Calculator: Best Online Tool for mutual fund Systematic Withdrawal Plan & Tax-efficient monthly income in India
Budget 2023 Highlights: PDF Download, Key Takeaways, Important Points
 


				Popular articles
			






Large Cap Stocks – What is it, Features & Factors to be Considered              









Top Stocks Under Rs. 100              









Beta in Indian stocks – Types, Should you invest in high beta stocks?              








Related Articles









Calculators 


									National Saving Certificate Calculator Online								

07 Mar								
								7 minutes							








Calculators 


									Business loan EMI calculator – How to calculate business loan EMI?								

12 Aug								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Bike Loan EMI Calculator – Calculate amount for Two Wheeler Loan								

24 Jul								
								5 minutes							








Calculators 


									Crypto Tax Calculator								

07 Apr								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Depreciation Calculator								

03 Mar								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Gold Loan EMI Calculator								

02 Mar								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Mortgage Calculator								

21 Feb								
								7 minutes							








Calculators 


									Online Business Loan EMI Calculator								

07 Feb								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									House Loan EMI Calculator								

07 Feb								
								5 minutes							








Calculators 


									Car Loan EMI Calculator								

07 Feb								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Online EMI Calculator								

07 Feb								
								5 minutes							










Download one of India's best wealth management apps
Join more than one million investors and take control of your wealth
Download app

            




















Download the Fisdom app here
       Google Play      App store  





CompanyAbout us
Pricing
Careers
Blog
Fisdom in News





ProductStock / F&O
Mutual Fund
IPO & more
Pension Funds
 



Help & SupportKnowledge Base
Contact us
Brokerage Calculator
Advisory KYC Updation
Policies
Privacy Policy
Terms
Investor Charter
Investor Complaints
Download Forms
Disclaimer
Refund
Scheme Offer Documents
Bank Details
Glossary
Regulatory Disclosure
 




Follow us:




We are well certified



SEBI Registered Investment Advisor INA200005323



BSE Registered Mutual Fund Distributor Code No:10140



IRDAI Corporate Agent Finwizard Technology Pvt Ltd CA License No:
            CA0505
            License Valid till: 19-Jun-2023



256 Bit SSL encryption security



Association of Mutual Funds of India Registered Mutual Fund
            Distributor
            ARN:103168


2023 Copyright, All Right Reserved, Built for Investors, Pro Traders &
        Beginners with Finwizard Technology Private Limited is a member of National Stock Exchange of India Limited (Member code:90228) & BSE Limited (Member code:6696 ) SEBI Registration No. INZ000209036SEBI Depository Participant Registration No. IN-DP-572-2021Mutual Fund distributor with AMFI Registration No. ARN:103168SEBI Registered Investment Advisor INA200005323Finwizard Technology Private Limited CIN number : U74900KA2015PTC080747SEBI Research Analyst No. INH000010238Registered Office AddressQueens Paradise, No. 16/1, 1st Floor Curve Road, Shivaji Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560071Correspondence/Communication AddressOffice No.1002, A wing, 10th Floor, Kanakia Wall Street, Hanuman Nagar, Andheri Kurla Road, Chakala, Andheri (East), Mumbai - 400093Tel: +91 96425 96425Compliance Officer Name : Krishna Jakkula; Email ID : compliance@fisdom.com ; +91 89519 49507For any grievances related to stock broking/dp, please write to grievances@fisdom.com,Please ensure you carefully read the Risk Disclosure Document as prescribed by SEBIProcedure to file a complaint on SEBI SCORES: Register on SCORES portal. Mandatory details for filing complaints on SCORES: Name, PAN, Address, Mobile Number, E-mail ID. Benefits: Effective Communication, Speedy redressal of the grievancesDisclaimer: Investment in securities market are subject to market risks, read all the related documents carefully before investing.Download Client Registration Documents (Rights & Obligations, Risk Disclosure Document, Do's & Don'ts) in Vernacular Language: BSE | NSEAttention Investors +Prevent unauthorised transactions in your account. Update your mobile numbers/email IDs with your stock brokers. Receive information of your transactions directly from Exchange on your mobile/email at the end of the day. Issued in the interest of investors.KYC is one time exercise while dealing in securities markets - once KYC is done through a SEBI registered intermediary (broker, DP, Mutual Fund etc.), you need not undergo the same process again when you approach another intermediary.If you are subscribing to an IPO, there is no need to issue a cheque. Please write the Bank account number and sign the IPO application form to authorize your bank to make payment in case of allotment. In case of non allotment the funds will remain in your bank account.Stock brokers can accept securities as margins from clients only by way of pledge in the depository system w. e. f. September 01, 2020.Update your e-mail and phone number with your stock broker/depository participant and receive OTP directly from depository on your e-mail and/or mobile number to create pledge.Check your securities/MF/bonds in the consolidated account statement issued by NSDL/CDSL every month. Investors should be cautious on unsolicited emails and SMS advising to buy or sell securities and trade only on the basis of informed decisions.Investors may please refer to the Exchange's Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) issued vide circular reference NSE/INSP/45191 dated July 31, 2020 and NSE/INSP/45534 dated August 31, 2020 & vide notice no. BSE 20200731-7 dated July 31, 2020 and BSE 20200831-45 dated August 31, 2020 and other guidelines issued from time to time in this regard.View more information on Investor's Attention“Investors may please refer to the Exchange's Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) issued vide circular reference NSE/INSP/45191 dated July 31, 2020 and NSE/INSP/45534 dated August 31, 2020 & vide notice no. BSE 20200731-7 dated July 31, 2020 and BSE 20200831-45 dated August 31, 2020 and other guidelines issued from time to time in this regard.”Members are also advised to display the following messages on their respective websites under a separate banner “Advisory for investors”:Attention Investors!Beware of fixed/guaranteed/regular returns/ capital protection schemes. Brokers or their authorized persons or any of their associates are not authorized to offer fixed/guaranteed/regular returns/ capital protection on your investment or authorized to enter into any loan agreement with you to pay interest on the funds offered by you. Please note that in case of default of a member claim for funds or securities given to the broker under any arrangement/ agreement of indicative return will not be accepted by the relevant Committee of the Exchange as per the approved norms.Do not keep funds idle with the Stock Broker. Please note that your stock broker has to return the credit balance lying with them, within three working days in case you have not done any transaction within last 30 calendar days. Please note that in case of default of a Member, claim for funds and securities, without any transaction on the exchange will not be accepted by the relevant Committee of the Exchange as per the approved norms.Check the frequency of accounts settlement opted for. If you have opted for running account, please ensure that your broker settles your account and, in any case, not later than once in 90 days (or 30 days if you have opted for 30 days settlement). In case of declaration of trading member as defaulter, the claims of clients against such defaulter member would be subject to norms for eligibility of claims for compensation from IPF to the clients of the defaulter member. These norms are available on Exchange website at following link:BSE | NSE.Brokers are not permitted to accept transfer of securities as margin. Securities offered as margin/ collateral MUST remain in the account of the client and can be pledged to the broker only by way of ‘margin pledge’, created in the Depository system. Clients are not permitted to place any securities with the broker or associate of the broker or authorized person of the broker for any reason. Broker can take securities belonging to clients only for settlement of securities sold by the client.Always keep your contact details viz. Mobile number/Email ID updated with the stock broker. Email and mobile number is mandatory and you must provide the same to your broker for updation in Exchange records. You must immediately take up the matter with Stock Broker/Exchange if you are not receiving the messages from Exchange/Depositories regularly.Don't ignore any emails/SMSs received from the Exchange for trades done by you. Verify the same with the Contract notes/Statement of accounts received from your broker and report discrepancy, if any, to your broker in writing immediately and if the Stock Broker does not respond, please take this up with the Exchange/Depositories forthwith.Check messages sent by Exchanges on a weekly basis regarding funds and securities balances reported by the trading member, compare it with the weekly statement of account sent by broker and immediately raise a concern to the exchange if you notice a discrepancy.Please do not transfer funds, for the purposes of trading to anyone, including an authorized person or an associate of the broker, other than a SEBI registered Stock broker.”Precautions for clients dealing in OptionsClients/Investors are advised to avoid below-mentioned practices:Sharing of trading credentials – login id & passwords including OTP’s.Trading in leveraged products like options without proper understanding, which could lead tolossesWriting/ selling options or trading in option strategies based on tips, without basic knowledge& understanding of the product and its risksDealing in unsolicited tips through WhatsApp, Telegram, YouTube, Facebook, SMS, calls, etc.Trading in “Options” based on recommendations from unauthorised / unregistered investmentadvisors and influencers.










​







Close modal






































