







Car Loan EMI Calculator - Online Demat, Trading, and Mutual Fund Investment in India - Fisdom







































 












Skip to content



















Products







                          Stocks
                        








                          IPOs & more
                        








                          Mutual Funds
                        









                          Pension Funds
                        




Private Wealth

Resources







                          Research
                        








                        One Percent Academy
                        








                          Blogs
                        








                          Calculators
                        





Company







                          About us
                        








                          Careers
                        








                          Contact us
                        







Login
Download app















Blog 

 Calculators 







Calculators











 

 




 







 


Car Loan EMI Calculator




Deepak 

Written by - Deepak 




February 7, 2022						
						6 minutes					






















Introduction 
India is one of the leading markets in the world for automobiles. Despite the huge slump in the overall industry in the wake of the covid pandemic, or the ever-increasing fuel prices, we all know that the demand will never completely go away. Also, we can see some recovery in the industry backed by the improved purchasing power of the consumers.
However, for many people even today, buying a car without external financing is quite difficult. This financial assistance has to be repaid within the tenure in fixed installments.
Given below are the details of repayment of such external financing options and the use of a car loan EMI calculator to ease the process. 
What is a car loan EMI?
A car loan is a loan that can be taken to purchase a new car or a second-hand car. This loan belongs to a mid-term loan segment where the tenure is anywhere between 5 to 10 years approximately at a relatively lower interest rate as compared to other loans like personal loans. The repayment for this loan is in the form of monthly payments known as EMI (Equated Monthly Installments) over the tenure of the loan. Some banks also allow the borrowers to prepay their loan after paying the initial minimum EMIs by paying the outstanding balance in a lump sum provided it is allowed as per bank regulations. Borrowers have to pay a nominal amount in the form of interest on the outstanding balance for such prepayment. 
What is the formula for calculating car loan EMI?
Like any other EMI, the components for calculating the car loan EMI are the three basic inputs given below.
Loan amountTenure of loanRate of interest
The mathematical formula for calculating car loan EMI using the above parameters is given hereunder.
EMI = P x r x {(1+r)^n/ [(1+r)^n-1]}
In the above formula, 
P is the loan amount given by the lender.
r is the rate of interest charged by the lender for the loan. It is represented in the form of a per month rate and not an annual rate. Therefore, r is calculated as r/12/100.
n is the tenure of the loan and it is represented as the total number of months in the tenure (for example, tenure of 5 years is represented as 60 months in the above formula).
Let us consider an example to understand the above formula. 
Mr. A has purchased a car using a loan of Rs. 6,00,000 from XYZ bank at the rate of 7% per annum for a tenure of 4 years. The EMI in this example will be calculated as,
EMI = 600000 * 0.005833 * {(1+0.005833)^48 / [(1+0.005833)^48 – 1]}
EMI = Rs. Rs. 14,368
The above EMI will have to be paid by Mr. A in 48 months at the predetermined date. The amount will be auto-debited from the borrower’s bank account on such date or EMIs can be paid through PDCs (post-dated cheques).
What is a car loan EMI calculator?
The above formula is quite complex and therefore may be difficult for an average borrower to understand. Also, it is quite time-consuming and may also lead to errors. To ease this process, most lenders and customer awareness websites have the car loan EMI calculator tool. This is an automated tool is free of cost and can be used multiple times to calculate the EMI that will have to be paid based on the three parameters mentioned above. 
How to use the Fisdom  car loan EMI calculator?
Users can get the car loan EMI calculator tool on the website of Fisdom . This tool is available on the homepage of the website under the tab ‘Resources’. Users have to provide the following inputs to calculate the car loan EMI that they need to pay towards the repayment of the loan taken. 
The amount of loanThe prevailing rate of interestThe tenure of the loan
After putting in the above data, users will immediately get the EMI amount displayed on their screen. Along with the EMI amount, users can also know the total interest that they will pay during the tenure of the loan. This tool can also be quite useful in comparing the various loan options from different lenders. Users can then opt for the loan where the EMI expense is the lowest and other loan criteria are suitable to the borrower. 
Why is the car loan EMI calculator important?
The car loan EMI calculator is a very handy tool that helps potential borrowers calculate the amount of EMI that they need to pay on the loan. The key advantages of this tool are mentioned below.
This tool is free of cost and can be used multiple times.It is a time-saving tool and easy to understand for any borrower.Borrowers can get 100% accurate results from this calculator which helps them in decision-making.
Conclusion 
Car loan EMI calculators are an essential tool for every borrower so they can get a fair idea of the EMI expense on their car loan every month and thereby plan their finances accordingly.
FAQs
1. What is the average interest rate for car loans currently? The average rate of interest on car loans currently is around 7% approximately.  2. Can the car loan EMI calculator be used for all types of vehicles? Yes. Car loan EMI calculator can be used for all types of cars (personal or commercial, new cars, or second-hand cars) as well as other vehicles.  3. Can a car loan EMI calculator provide the amount of interest that will have to be paid for the tenure of the loan? Car loan EMI calculator provides information regarding the amount of EMI payable each month. Borrowers can get information about the interest on their loan by simply adding all the EMIs payable and reducing the original amount of the loan from the total. The resultant amount is the total interest charged on the loan.   4. Can car loans be taken at the showroom or only at the designated branches of the bank? Car loans are available directly with the dealers at the car showroom or by approaching any lender for the same.  
Related Links
5 Tips to Reduce Auto Insurance Premium
Fisdom  Weekly Update (Issue #13): Fresh perspectives to regular decisions & more!(Opens in a new browser tab)
What happens when a borrower fails to repay a loan?(Opens in a new browser tab)
How to Reduce EMI on Loans? 6 Easy Ways to Reduce EMI on Loans(Opens in a new browser tab)
National Saving Certificate Calculator Online(Opens in a new browser tab)




Share the article

 

 




 







 

 










					Get exclusive content
					and expert advice
				
Subscribe to fisdom to get regular updates in the finance world delivered to your inbox each month






Subscribe




				Fisdom Story
			





Popular CalculatorsCAGR Calculator 2023
Compound Interest Calculator
FD Calculator
Gratuity Calculator – Simple Gratuity Calculation Online 2023
HRA Calculator
Free Online Tax Calculator for 2023-24 for Income Tax Slabs, – New vs Old Regime
Lumpsum Calculator
Fisdom NPS Calculator: Best free online tool for pension & annuity planning in India
Employee Provident Fund (EPF) Calculator Online
Online PPF Calculator 2023-24 – Calculate return for your PPF Account at current interest rate
RD Calculator
Retirement Calculator
SIP Calculator
Step Up SIP Calculator – Invest in Mutual Funds
SWP Calculator: Best Online Tool for mutual fund Systematic Withdrawal Plan & Tax-efficient monthly income in India
Budget 2023 Highlights: PDF Download, Key Takeaways, Important Points
 


				Popular articles
			






Beta in Indian stocks – Types, Should you invest in high beta stocks?              









Best Gold ETFs to Invest in India              









Best stocks to invest for the long term in 2023              








Related Articles









Calculators 


									National Saving Certificate Calculator Online								

07 Mar								
								7 minutes							








Calculators 


									Business loan EMI calculator – How to calculate business loan EMI?								

12 Aug								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Bike Loan EMI Calculator – Calculate amount for Two Wheeler Loan								

24 Jul								
								5 minutes							








Calculators 


									Crypto Tax Calculator								

07 Apr								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Depreciation Calculator								

03 Mar								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Gold Loan EMI Calculator								

02 Mar								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Return on Investment (ROI) Calculator								

21 Feb								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Mortgage Calculator								

21 Feb								
								7 minutes							








Calculators 


									Online Business Loan EMI Calculator								

07 Feb								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									House Loan EMI Calculator								

07 Feb								
								5 minutes							








Calculators 


									Online EMI Calculator								

07 Feb								
								5 minutes							










Download one of India's best wealth management apps
Join more than one million investors and take control of your wealth
Download app

            




















Download the Fisdom app here
       Google Play      App store  





CompanyAbout us
Pricing
Careers
Blog
Fisdom in News





ProductStock / F&O
Mutual Fund
IPO & more
Pension Funds
 



Help & SupportKnowledge Base
Contact us
Brokerage Calculator
Advisory KYC Updation
Policies
Privacy Policy
Terms
Investor Charter
Investor Complaints
Download Forms
Disclaimer
Refund
Scheme Offer Documents
Bank Details
Glossary
Regulatory Disclosure
 




Follow us:




We are well certified



SEBI Registered Investment Advisor INA200005323



BSE Registered Mutual Fund Distributor Code No:10140



IRDAI Corporate Agent Finwizard Technology Pvt Ltd CA License No:
            CA0505
            License Valid till: 19-Jun-2023



256 Bit SSL encryption security



Association of Mutual Funds of India Registered Mutual Fund
            Distributor
            ARN:103168


2023 Copyright, All Right Reserved, Built for Investors, Pro Traders &
        Beginners with Finwizard Technology Private Limited is a member of National Stock Exchange of India Limited (Member code:90228) & BSE Limited (Member code:6696 ) SEBI Registration No. INZ000209036SEBI Depository Participant Registration No. IN-DP-572-2021Mutual Fund distributor with AMFI Registration No. ARN:103168SEBI Registered Investment Advisor INA200005323Finwizard Technology Private Limited CIN number : U74900KA2015PTC080747SEBI Research Analyst No. INH000010238Registered Office AddressQueens Paradise, No. 16/1, 1st Floor Curve Road, Shivaji Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560071Correspondence/Communication AddressOffice No.1002, A wing, 10th Floor, Kanakia Wall Street, Hanuman Nagar, Andheri Kurla Road, Chakala, Andheri (East), Mumbai - 400093Tel: +91 96425 96425Compliance Officer Name : Krishna Jakkula; Email ID : compliance@fisdom.com ; +91 89519 49507For any grievances related to stock broking/dp, please write to grievances@fisdom.com,Please ensure you carefully read the Risk Disclosure Document as prescribed by SEBIProcedure to file a complaint on SEBI SCORES: Register on SCORES portal. Mandatory details for filing complaints on SCORES: Name, PAN, Address, Mobile Number, E-mail ID. Benefits: Effective Communication, Speedy redressal of the grievancesDisclaimer: Investment in securities market are subject to market risks, read all the related documents carefully before investing.Download Client Registration Documents (Rights & Obligations, Risk Disclosure Document, Do's & Don'ts) in Vernacular Language: BSE | NSEAttention Investors +Prevent unauthorised transactions in your account. Update your mobile numbers/email IDs with your stock brokers. Receive information of your transactions directly from Exchange on your mobile/email at the end of the day. Issued in the interest of investors.KYC is one time exercise while dealing in securities markets - once KYC is done through a SEBI registered intermediary (broker, DP, Mutual Fund etc.), you need not undergo the same process again when you approach another intermediary.If you are subscribing to an IPO, there is no need to issue a cheque. Please write the Bank account number and sign the IPO application form to authorize your bank to make payment in case of allotment. In case of non allotment the funds will remain in your bank account.Stock brokers can accept securities as margins from clients only by way of pledge in the depository system w. e. f. September 01, 2020.Update your e-mail and phone number with your stock broker/depository participant and receive OTP directly from depository on your e-mail and/or mobile number to create pledge.Check your securities/MF/bonds in the consolidated account statement issued by NSDL/CDSL every month. Investors should be cautious on unsolicited emails and SMS advising to buy or sell securities and trade only on the basis of informed decisions.Investors may please refer to the Exchange's Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) issued vide circular reference NSE/INSP/45191 dated July 31, 2020 and NSE/INSP/45534 dated August 31, 2020 & vide notice no. BSE 20200731-7 dated July 31, 2020 and BSE 20200831-45 dated August 31, 2020 and other guidelines issued from time to time in this regard.View more information on Investor's Attention“Investors may please refer to the Exchange's Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) issued vide circular reference NSE/INSP/45191 dated July 31, 2020 and NSE/INSP/45534 dated August 31, 2020 & vide notice no. BSE 20200731-7 dated July 31, 2020 and BSE 20200831-45 dated August 31, 2020 and other guidelines issued from time to time in this regard.”Members are also advised to display the following messages on their respective websites under a separate banner “Advisory for investors”:Attention Investors!Beware of fixed/guaranteed/regular returns/ capital protection schemes. Brokers or their authorized persons or any of their associates are not authorized to offer fixed/guaranteed/regular returns/ capital protection on your investment or authorized to enter into any loan agreement with you to pay interest on the funds offered by you. Please note that in case of default of a member claim for funds or securities given to the broker under any arrangement/ agreement of indicative return will not be accepted by the relevant Committee of the Exchange as per the approved norms.Do not keep funds idle with the Stock Broker. Please note that your stock broker has to return the credit balance lying with them, within three working days in case you have not done any transaction within last 30 calendar days. Please note that in case of default of a Member, claim for funds and securities, without any transaction on the exchange will not be accepted by the relevant Committee of the Exchange as per the approved norms.Check the frequency of accounts settlement opted for. If you have opted for running account, please ensure that your broker settles your account and, in any case, not later than once in 90 days (or 30 days if you have opted for 30 days settlement). In case of declaration of trading member as defaulter, the claims of clients against such defaulter member would be subject to norms for eligibility of claims for compensation from IPF to the clients of the defaulter member. These norms are available on Exchange website at following link:BSE | NSE.Brokers are not permitted to accept transfer of securities as margin. Securities offered as margin/ collateral MUST remain in the account of the client and can be pledged to the broker only by way of ‘margin pledge’, created in the Depository system. Clients are not permitted to place any securities with the broker or associate of the broker or authorized person of the broker for any reason. Broker can take securities belonging to clients only for settlement of securities sold by the client.Always keep your contact details viz. Mobile number/Email ID updated with the stock broker. Email and mobile number is mandatory and you must provide the same to your broker for updation in Exchange records. You must immediately take up the matter with Stock Broker/Exchange if you are not receiving the messages from Exchange/Depositories regularly.Don't ignore any emails/SMSs received from the Exchange for trades done by you. Verify the same with the Contract notes/Statement of accounts received from your broker and report discrepancy, if any, to your broker in writing immediately and if the Stock Broker does not respond, please take this up with the Exchange/Depositories forthwith.Check messages sent by Exchanges on a weekly basis regarding funds and securities balances reported by the trading member, compare it with the weekly statement of account sent by broker and immediately raise a concern to the exchange if you notice a discrepancy.Please do not transfer funds, for the purposes of trading to anyone, including an authorized person or an associate of the broker, other than a SEBI registered Stock broker.”Precautions for clients dealing in OptionsClients/Investors are advised to avoid below-mentioned practices:Sharing of trading credentials – login id & passwords including OTP’s.Trading in leveraged products like options without proper understanding, which could lead tolossesWriting/ selling options or trading in option strategies based on tips, without basic knowledge& understanding of the product and its risksDealing in unsolicited tips through WhatsApp, Telegram, YouTube, Facebook, SMS, calls, etc.Trading in “Options” based on recommendations from unauthorised / unregistered investmentadvisors and influencers.










​







Close modal






































