








Online EMI Calculator - Online Demat, Trading, and Mutual Fund Investment in India - Fisdom







































 












Skip to content



















Products







                          Stocks
                        








                          IPOs & more
                        








                          Mutual Funds
                        









                          Pension Funds
                        




Private Wealth

Resources







                          Research
                        








                        One Percent Academy
                        








                          Blogs
                        








                          Calculators
                        





Company







                          About us
                        








                          Careers
                        








                          Contact us
                        







Login
Download app















Blog 

 Calculators 







Calculators











 

 




 







 


Online EMI Calculator




Deepak 

Written by - Deepak 




February 7, 2022						
						5 minutes					






















Introduction 
We have all grown up hearing the words EMI. Many ads have also been running over the years that show banks offering loans at lower EMIs and flexible payment modes. While the term may be quite common in today’s world, not many may even know the full form of the term EMI or how it is calculated. 
Below are a few details regarding the meaning of EMI and how EMI calculators can be quite useful for an average Indian.
What is EMI? 
When we approach a bank or an NBFC for a loan, they consider the tenure of the loan, our repayment capacity, and their applicable rate of interest on the loan for finally calculating the amount to be repaid to them. This amount is then split into easy monthly payments that can be paid to the lender through various modes like PDCs, net banking, auto-debits, etc. These monthly repayments of the loan taken are known as EMI (Equated Monthly Installments). 
What is the formula to calculate EMI?
Now that we know the meaning of EMI, let us understand its calculation. We understand that EMI is made up of the interest on the loan along with the principal amount that is to be paid every month. The important question here is how do we calculate an amount that will correctly represent the interest along with the principal amount and in what proportion. This amount is derived using the formula given below.
EMI = P x r x {(1+r)^n/ [(1+r)^n-1]}
In the above formula, 
P = Principal
r = Rate of interest (where ‘r’ is represented as r/12/100 which is a per month rate)
n = Tenure (in months)
To explain the above formula, let us consider an example. Mr. A has taken a loan of Rs. 10,00,000 at the rate of 10% for 5 years. The amount of EMI, in this case, is calculated hereunder.
EMI = 1000000 x 0.00833 x {(1+0.00833)^60 / [(1+0.00833)^60 – 1}
EMI = Rs. 21247
The above formula helps in determining the amount that has to be paid every month for the tenure of the loan by the borrower to completely repay their loan. It uses the concept of reducing balance where the interest is charged in the outstanding principal amount at the end of the previous year. This calculation becomes quite complex in the case of long-term loans like home loans where the tenure can be up to 30 years. 
What is an EMI calculator?
As mentioned above, the formula for calculating the amount of EMI helps the borrower in understanding the amount that is to be paid by them every month towards the loan repayment. However, the above formula is quite complex especially for a layman who may have no understanding of the concept of reducing balance. In such a case, whether the loan is for the short term or the long term, calculating the exact amount of EMI can be quite difficult. This is where EMI calculators come into the picture.
EMI calculators are a very simple but important tool available on the websites of the majority of lenders and other websites that may help in customer awareness. This tool uses three main components that are used in the calculation of EMI, namely, 

Amount of loan
Rate of interest
Tenure of loan

How to use the Fisdom  EMI calculator?
Customers can also find an EMI calculator on the Fisdom  website to help them calculate their EMI amount easily within minutes. The EMI calculator tool on the Fisdom  website is available under the tab ‘Resources’ on the homepage. 
The steps to use the Fisdom  EMI calculator are given below 

Enter the amount of loan
Enter the applicable rate of interest
Enter the tenure of the loan

After providing the above details, customers will immediately get the amount of EMI to be paid by them displayed on their screen. This amount will help them in getting an idea of their monthly outflow towards loan repayment. 
Conclusion
EMI calculators have become one of the basic tools for every person seeking any loan. This tool helps them to understand the amount that they will be required to pay monthly till the end of the loan tenure to square off their loan. This further helps in financial planning and budgeting the monthly expenses in a better or more efficient manner so the EMI does not become a burden for the borrower.
FAQs

1. What are the various types of EMI calculators?
The various types of EMI calculators are home loan EMI calculator, personal loan EMI calculator, car loan EMI calculator, business loan EMI calculator, education loan EMI calculator, etc.

2. What are the uses of a basic EMI calculator?
EMI calculator can be used to calculate the EMI for every type of loan like home loan, car loan, personal loan, business loan, etc. EMI calculators are easy or simple to use and can be available free of charge for every potential borrower. 

3. What is the meaning of the amortization schedule?
Amortisation schedule is the schedule of the EMI payments that tracks the amount of loan repaid and the interest component in each EMI till the full repayment of the loan taken by the borrower. 

4. Is the EMI calculator accurate?
Yes. EMI calculators are 100% accurate and easy for any user as they simply have to provide basic inputs to calculate the amount of EMI to be paid by them. 

5. Can borrowers check multiple EMI options on the EMI calculator?
Yes. Borrowers use the EMI calculator multiple times and try different combinations to get the EMI amount by changing either the interest rate or tenure or loan amount. This will help them get an EMI that may be the best fit for the borrower.


Related Links
6 easy ways to reduce EMI on loansWhat happens when a borrower fails to repay?National Saving Certificate Calculator OnlineWhat is unsecured lending and how does it work?




Share the article

 

 




 







 

 










					Get exclusive content
					and expert advice
				
Subscribe to fisdom to get regular updates in the finance world delivered to your inbox each month






Subscribe




				Fisdom Story
			





Popular CalculatorsCAGR Calculator 2023
Compound Interest Calculator
FD Calculator
Gratuity Calculator – Simple Gratuity Calculation Online 2023
HRA Calculator
Free Online Tax Calculator for 2023-24 for Income Tax Slabs, – New vs Old Regime
Lumpsum Calculator
Fisdom NPS Calculator: Best free online tool for pension & annuity planning in India
Employee Provident Fund (EPF) Calculator Online
Online PPF Calculator 2023-24 – Calculate return for your PPF Account at current interest rate
RD Calculator
Retirement Calculator
SIP Calculator
Step Up SIP Calculator – Invest in Mutual Funds
SWP Calculator: Best Online Tool for mutual fund Systematic Withdrawal Plan & Tax-efficient monthly income in India
Budget 2023 Highlights: PDF Download, Key Takeaways, Important Points
 


				Popular articles
			






Large Cap Stocks – What is it, Features & Factors to be Considered              









Top Stocks Under Rs. 100 to Invest in 2023              









Beta in Indian stocks – Types, Should you invest in high beta stocks?              








Related Articles









Calculators 


									National Saving Certificate Calculator Online								

07 Mar								
								7 minutes							








Calculators 


									Business loan EMI calculator – How to calculate business loan EMI?								

12 Aug								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Bike Loan EMI Calculator – Calculate amount for Two Wheeler Loan								

24 Jul								
								5 minutes							








Calculators 


									Crypto Tax Calculator								

07 Apr								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Depreciation Calculator								

03 Mar								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Gold Loan EMI Calculator								

02 Mar								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Return on Investment (ROI) Calculator								

21 Feb								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Mortgage Calculator								

21 Feb								
								7 minutes							








Calculators 


									Online Business Loan EMI Calculator								

07 Feb								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									House Loan EMI Calculator								

07 Feb								
								5 minutes							








Calculators 


									Car Loan EMI Calculator								

07 Feb								
								6 minutes							










Download one of India's best wealth management apps
Join more than one million investors and take control of your wealth
Download app

            




















Download the Fisdom app here
       Google Play      App store  





CompanyAbout us
Pricing
Careers
Blog
Fisdom in News





ProductStock / F&O
Mutual Fund
IPO & more
Pension Funds
 



Help & SupportKnowledge Base
Contact us
Brokerage Calculator
Advisory KYC Updation
Policies
Privacy Policy
Terms
Investor Charter
Investor Complaints
Download Forms
Disclaimer
Refund
Scheme Offer Documents
Bank Details
Glossary
Regulatory Disclosure
 




Follow us:




We are well certified



SEBI Registered Investment Advisor INA200005323



BSE Registered Mutual Fund Distributor Code No:10140



IRDAI Corporate Agent Finwizard Technology Pvt Ltd CA License No:
            CA0505
            License Valid till: 19-Jun-2023



256 Bit SSL encryption security



Association of Mutual Funds of India Registered Mutual Fund
            Distributor
            ARN:103168


2023 Copyright, All Right Reserved, Built for Investors, Pro Traders &
        Beginners with Finwizard Technology Private Limited is a member of National Stock Exchange of India Limited (Member code:90228) & BSE Limited (Member code:6696 ) SEBI Registration No. INZ000209036SEBI Depository Participant Registration No. IN-DP-572-2021Mutual Fund distributor with AMFI Registration No. ARN:103168SEBI Registered Investment Advisor INA200005323Finwizard Technology Private Limited CIN number : U74900KA2015PTC080747SEBI Research Analyst No. INH000010238Registered Office AddressQueens Paradise, No. 16/1, 1st Floor Curve Road, Shivaji Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560071Correspondence/Communication AddressOffice No.1002, A wing, 10th Floor, Kanakia Wall Street, Hanuman Nagar, Andheri Kurla Road, Chakala, Andheri (East), Mumbai - 400093Tel: +91 96425 96425Compliance Officer Name : Krishna Jakkula; Email ID : compliance@fisdom.com ; +91 89519 49507For any grievances related to stock broking/dp, please write to grievances@fisdom.com,Please ensure you carefully read the Risk Disclosure Document as prescribed by SEBIProcedure to file a complaint on SEBI SCORES: Register on SCORES portal. Mandatory details for filing complaints on SCORES: Name, PAN, Address, Mobile Number, E-mail ID. Benefits: Effective Communication, Speedy redressal of the grievancesDisclaimer: Investment in securities market are subject to market risks, read all the related documents carefully before investing.Download Client Registration Documents (Rights & Obligations, Risk Disclosure Document, Do's & Don'ts) in Vernacular Language: BSE | NSEAttention Investors +Prevent unauthorised transactions in your account. Update your mobile numbers/email IDs with your stock brokers. Receive information of your transactions directly from Exchange on your mobile/email at the end of the day. Issued in the interest of investors.KYC is one time exercise while dealing in securities markets - once KYC is done through a SEBI registered intermediary (broker, DP, Mutual Fund etc.), you need not undergo the same process again when you approach another intermediary.If you are subscribing to an IPO, there is no need to issue a cheque. Please write the Bank account number and sign the IPO application form to authorize your bank to make payment in case of allotment. In case of non allotment the funds will remain in your bank account.Stock brokers can accept securities as margins from clients only by way of pledge in the depository system w. e. f. September 01, 2020.Update your e-mail and phone number with your stock broker/depository participant and receive OTP directly from depository on your e-mail and/or mobile number to create pledge.Check your securities/MF/bonds in the consolidated account statement issued by NSDL/CDSL every month. Investors should be cautious on unsolicited emails and SMS advising to buy or sell securities and trade only on the basis of informed decisions.Investors may please refer to the Exchange's Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) issued vide circular reference NSE/INSP/45191 dated July 31, 2020 and NSE/INSP/45534 dated August 31, 2020 & vide notice no. BSE 20200731-7 dated July 31, 2020 and BSE 20200831-45 dated August 31, 2020 and other guidelines issued from time to time in this regard.View more information on Investor's Attention“Investors may please refer to the Exchange's Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) issued vide circular reference NSE/INSP/45191 dated July 31, 2020 and NSE/INSP/45534 dated August 31, 2020 & vide notice no. BSE 20200731-7 dated July 31, 2020 and BSE 20200831-45 dated August 31, 2020 and other guidelines issued from time to time in this regard.”Members are also advised to display the following messages on their respective websites under a separate banner “Advisory for investors”:Attention Investors!Beware of fixed/guaranteed/regular returns/ capital protection schemes. Brokers or their authorized persons or any of their associates are not authorized to offer fixed/guaranteed/regular returns/ capital protection on your investment or authorized to enter into any loan agreement with you to pay interest on the funds offered by you. Please note that in case of default of a member claim for funds or securities given to the broker under any arrangement/ agreement of indicative return will not be accepted by the relevant Committee of the Exchange as per the approved norms.Do not keep funds idle with the Stock Broker. Please note that your stock broker has to return the credit balance lying with them, within three working days in case you have not done any transaction within last 30 calendar days. Please note that in case of default of a Member, claim for funds and securities, without any transaction on the exchange will not be accepted by the relevant Committee of the Exchange as per the approved norms.Check the frequency of accounts settlement opted for. If you have opted for running account, please ensure that your broker settles your account and, in any case, not later than once in 90 days (or 30 days if you have opted for 30 days settlement). In case of declaration of trading member as defaulter, the claims of clients against such defaulter member would be subject to norms for eligibility of claims for compensation from IPF to the clients of the defaulter member. These norms are available on Exchange website at following link:BSE | NSE.Brokers are not permitted to accept transfer of securities as margin. Securities offered as margin/ collateral MUST remain in the account of the client and can be pledged to the broker only by way of ‘margin pledge’, created in the Depository system. Clients are not permitted to place any securities with the broker or associate of the broker or authorized person of the broker for any reason. Broker can take securities belonging to clients only for settlement of securities sold by the client.Always keep your contact details viz. Mobile number/Email ID updated with the stock broker. Email and mobile number is mandatory and you must provide the same to your broker for updation in Exchange records. You must immediately take up the matter with Stock Broker/Exchange if you are not receiving the messages from Exchange/Depositories regularly.Don't ignore any emails/SMSs received from the Exchange for trades done by you. Verify the same with the Contract notes/Statement of accounts received from your broker and report discrepancy, if any, to your broker in writing immediately and if the Stock Broker does not respond, please take this up with the Exchange/Depositories forthwith.Check messages sent by Exchanges on a weekly basis regarding funds and securities balances reported by the trading member, compare it with the weekly statement of account sent by broker and immediately raise a concern to the exchange if you notice a discrepancy.Please do not transfer funds, for the purposes of trading to anyone, including an authorized person or an associate of the broker, other than a SEBI registered Stock broker.”Precautions for clients dealing in OptionsClients/Investors are advised to avoid below-mentioned practices:Sharing of trading credentials – login id & passwords including OTP’s.Trading in leveraged products like options without proper understanding, which could lead tolossesWriting/ selling options or trading in option strategies based on tips, without basic knowledge& understanding of the product and its risksDealing in unsolicited tips through WhatsApp, Telegram, YouTube, Facebook, SMS, calls, etc.Trading in “Options” based on recommendations from unauthorised / unregistered investmentadvisors and influencers.










​







Close modal






































