








Depreciation Calculator - Online Demat, Trading, and Mutual Fund Investment in India - Fisdom







































 












Skip to content



















Products







                          Stocks
                        








                          IPOs & more
                        








                          Mutual Funds
                        









                          Pension Funds
                        




Private Wealth

Resources







                          Research
                        








                        One Percent Academy
                        








                          Blogs
                        








                          Calculators
                        





Company







                          About us
                        








                          Careers
                        








                          Contact us
                        







Login
Download app















Blog 

 Calculators 







Calculators











 

 




 







 


Depreciation Calculator




AkshathaSajumon 

Written by - Akshatha Sajumon 




March 3, 2022						
						6 minutes					






















Depreciation is the reduction in an asset’s value over time due to constant wear and tear, the arrival of newer technologies, or changing market scenarios. The value of fixed assets, like machinery and equipment, depreciates and becomes obsolete with time. Hence, these must be replaced in a few years. When a company purchases a new asset, its cost price has to be spread across the number of years upto which it will probably be used. Thus, the portion of an asset’s cost that is used in a given accounting period gets recorded as depreciation expense on the company’s P&L account.
In the Indian context, there are different depreciation methods and rates that are applicable as stated in the Income Tax act. 
The two primary methods of estimating depreciation are the

Straight Line method and 
Declining Balance method.

 Various factors, like asset type, legal requirements, and current business scenarios, determine the method of depreciation selected.
How to use Fisdom ’s depreciation calculator?
Calculating depreciation of assets manually and using different methods can be a time-consuming task. With Fisdom ’s online depreciation calculator, however, it can be done within a few seconds. To calculate accurate depreciation values, some of the information that is required to be input in the calculator are:

Cost of asset: This includes the cost of purchase, installation, and shipping of an asset.
Salvage value: Once an asset has depreciated, the business would ideally sell it at a lower price. The price that an asset can fetch at the time of sale is called its salvage value.
Duration: The total time during which an asset can be productively used by a business is called its useful life or duration. After the useful life of an asset is complete, it will no longer offer efficiency or cost-effectiveness to the business.
Selection of method: It is important for a business to be clear about the method of depreciation it will adopt. The calculator gives a choice of straight line method and declining balance method. 

By incorporating depreciation in annual accounting records, businesses can ensure that the financial statements report correct profit or loss figures. It is therefore important for businesses to enter the depreciation details correctly. To easily arrive at the right depreciation figures, one can make use of Fisdom ’s depreciation calculator. 
Upon entering the above-mentioned information in the calculator, the depreciation calculator will estimate the right depreciation amount that can be used for accurate P&L calculations.
How does Fisdom ’s depreciation calculator work?
Depreciation can be calculated for accounting purposes in many ways. Fisdom ’s depreciation calculator has two of the most commonly used depreciation methods incorporated in it. Here, we will explain how the calculator works for each of these methods:
Straight-line method of depreciation
The easiest way to calculate depreciation for any fixed asset is by using a straight-line method of depreciation. This method is popularly used across industries since it involves a simple distribution of the asset’s value over its duration or usable life. 
The formula used under this method is:
Depreciation = (asset cost – salvage value) / useful life
Let’s taken an example to understand this further:
Suppose Ola Cabs buys a taxi at a cost price of Rs. 4 lakhs and its salvage value is Rs. 40,000 after using it for 10 years. Thus, depreciation will be:
= (4,00,000-40,000) / 10 
= 36,000
Thus, Ola Cabs will write off Rs. 36,000 from the taxi’s value each year for its duration, which is ten years.
Declining balance method of depreciation
The declining balance method involves a somewhat complicated calculation as compared to straight-line method. Under this method, one can write off a higher portion of the asset’s value in the first few years and lesser value in the later years. This method is ideal for businesses that want to recover higher asset value upfront.
Formula for 1st year –
Annual depreciation = (2 x straight-line depreciation rate) x (asset book value at year beginning)
Formula for next year onwards-
Annual depreciation = (2 x straight-line depreciation rate) x (asset book value at year beginning (after reducing prior year depreciation))
Continuing the Ola Cabs example, we know the asset will be depreciated over ten years.
Thus, its depreciation rate can be considered as 10%. 
Depreciation in 1st year = (2 x 0.10) x 4,00,000 = 80,000
After writing off Rs. 80,000 in the 1st year, the asset’s book value will be 3,20,000.
Depreciation in 2nd year = (2 x 0.10) x 3,20,000 = 64,000
After writing off 64,000 in the 2nd year, the asset’s book value will be Rs. 2,56,000.
Thus, one can calculate the asset’s depreciation value for each year until Year 10.
What are the benefits of using Fisdom ’s depreciation calculator?
Fisdom ’s depreciation calculator can offer following benefits:

This online tool is free to use at any time and can be used multiple times with no limitations.
It replaces manual calculation and thereby allows hassle-free and easy depreciation calculations. 
With the choice of depreciation methods, one can make the most of this calculator to evaluate which method can offer maximum benefits.
It saves considerable time that would otherwise be required to manually estimate depreciation using multiple methods.
This calculator can be used to estimate depreciation for any kind of asset such as office building, equipment, vehicle, machinery, etc. 

Conclusion
Apart from companies, investors and analysts must learn the benefits and drawbacks that a company will face for choosing from the different depreciation methods. This is because the calculation will impact the company’s income statement and balance sheet in the short term. While the straight-line method can reduce earnings and increase costs and earnings-per-share, it may not necessarily signal an improvement in business performance.
FAQs

1. How does depreciation help a business to save tax?
Depreciation can be claimed as part of expense as per Income tax laws. Thus, through depreciation, a business can show higher expense to save tax.

2. What is book value of an asset?
Book value is the cost of carrying an asset on a company’s balance sheet. It is calculated as the net of the value asset after deducting its accumulated depreciation.

3. What is the meaning of a fully depreciated asset?
A fully depreciated asset means one that has experienced its complete useful life and any remaining value of the same will be its salvage value. Salvage value is an asset’s book value after considering the total depreciation.

4. Do companies need to take away fully depreciated assets from their balance sheet?
Fully depreciated assets are ideally not entirely taken off a company’s balance sheet. Since the company still owns them, these must be reported to stakeholders. Therefore, companies can include a financial note or disclosure stating the asset’s full depreciation.

5. What is the meaning of write-off?
A write-off means reduction in the value of an asset and is used by businesses to lower their annual tax obligations. Through a write off in accounting, a business removes all traces of a fixed asset from the balance sheet such that the related fixed asset account and total depreciation are reduced.






Share the article

 

 




 







 

 










					Get exclusive content
					and expert advice
				
Subscribe to fisdom to get regular updates in the finance world delivered to your inbox each month






Subscribe




				Fisdom Story
			





Popular CalculatorsCAGR Calculator 2023
Compound Interest Calculator
FD Calculator
Gratuity Calculator – Simple Gratuity Calculation Online 2023
HRA Calculator
Free Online Tax Calculator for 2023-24 for Income Tax Slabs, – New vs Old Regime
Lumpsum Calculator
Fisdom NPS Calculator: Best free online tool for pension & annuity planning in India
Employee Provident Fund (EPF) Calculator Online
Online PPF Calculator 2023-24 – Calculate return for your PPF Account at current interest rate
RD Calculator
Retirement Calculator
SIP Calculator
Step Up SIP Calculator – Invest in Mutual Funds
SWP Calculator: Best Online Tool for mutual fund Systematic Withdrawal Plan & Tax-efficient monthly income in India
Budget 2023 Highlights: PDF Download, Key Takeaways, Important Points
 


				Popular articles
			






Large Cap Stocks – What is it, Features & Factors to be Considered              









Top Stocks Under Rs. 100 to Invest in 2023              









Beta in Indian stocks – Types, Should you invest in high beta stocks?              








Related Articles









Calculators 


									National Saving Certificate Calculator Online								

07 Mar								
								7 minutes							








Calculators 


									Business loan EMI calculator – How to calculate business loan EMI?								

12 Aug								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Bike Loan EMI Calculator – Calculate amount for Two Wheeler Loan								

24 Jul								
								5 minutes							








Calculators 


									Crypto Tax Calculator								

07 Apr								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Gold Loan EMI Calculator								

02 Mar								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Return on Investment (ROI) Calculator								

21 Feb								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Mortgage Calculator								

21 Feb								
								7 minutes							








Calculators 


									Online Business Loan EMI Calculator								

07 Feb								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									House Loan EMI Calculator								

07 Feb								
								5 minutes							








Calculators 


									Car Loan EMI Calculator								

07 Feb								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Online EMI Calculator								

07 Feb								
								5 minutes							










Download one of India's best wealth management apps
Join more than one million investors and take control of your wealth
Download app

            




















Download the Fisdom app here
       Google Play      App store  





CompanyAbout us
Pricing
Careers
Blog
Fisdom in News





ProductStock / F&O
Mutual Fund
IPO & more
Pension Funds
 



Help & SupportKnowledge Base
Contact us
Brokerage Calculator
Advisory KYC Updation
Policies
Privacy Policy
Terms
Investor Charter
Investor Complaints
Download Forms
Disclaimer
Refund
Scheme Offer Documents
Bank Details
Glossary
Regulatory Disclosure
 




Follow us:




We are well certified



SEBI Registered Investment Advisor INA200005323



BSE Registered Mutual Fund Distributor Code No:10140



IRDAI Corporate Agent Finwizard Technology Pvt Ltd CA License No:
            CA0505
            License Valid till: 19-Jun-2023



256 Bit SSL encryption security



Association of Mutual Funds of India Registered Mutual Fund
            Distributor
            ARN:103168


2023 Copyright, All Right Reserved, Built for Investors, Pro Traders &
        Beginners with Finwizard Technology Private Limited is a member of National Stock Exchange of India Limited (Member code:90228) & BSE Limited (Member code:6696 ) SEBI Registration No. INZ000209036SEBI Depository Participant Registration No. IN-DP-572-2021Mutual Fund distributor with AMFI Registration No. ARN:103168SEBI Registered Investment Advisor INA200005323Finwizard Technology Private Limited CIN number : U74900KA2015PTC080747SEBI Research Analyst No. INH000010238Registered Office AddressQueens Paradise, No. 16/1, 1st Floor Curve Road, Shivaji Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560071Correspondence/Communication AddressOffice No.1002, A wing, 10th Floor, Kanakia Wall Street, Hanuman Nagar, Andheri Kurla Road, Chakala, Andheri (East), Mumbai - 400093Tel: +91 96425 96425Compliance Officer Name : Krishna Jakkula; Email ID : compliance@fisdom.com ; +91 89519 49507For any grievances related to stock broking/dp, please write to grievances@fisdom.com,Please ensure you carefully read the Risk Disclosure Document as prescribed by SEBIProcedure to file a complaint on SEBI SCORES: Register on SCORES portal. Mandatory details for filing complaints on SCORES: Name, PAN, Address, Mobile Number, E-mail ID. Benefits: Effective Communication, Speedy redressal of the grievancesDisclaimer: Investment in securities market are subject to market risks, read all the related documents carefully before investing.Download Client Registration Documents (Rights & Obligations, Risk Disclosure Document, Do's & Don'ts) in Vernacular Language: BSE | NSEAttention Investors +Prevent unauthorised transactions in your account. Update your mobile numbers/email IDs with your stock brokers. Receive information of your transactions directly from Exchange on your mobile/email at the end of the day. Issued in the interest of investors.KYC is one time exercise while dealing in securities markets - once KYC is done through a SEBI registered intermediary (broker, DP, Mutual Fund etc.), you need not undergo the same process again when you approach another intermediary.If you are subscribing to an IPO, there is no need to issue a cheque. Please write the Bank account number and sign the IPO application form to authorize your bank to make payment in case of allotment. In case of non allotment the funds will remain in your bank account.Stock brokers can accept securities as margins from clients only by way of pledge in the depository system w. e. f. September 01, 2020.Update your e-mail and phone number with your stock broker/depository participant and receive OTP directly from depository on your e-mail and/or mobile number to create pledge.Check your securities/MF/bonds in the consolidated account statement issued by NSDL/CDSL every month. Investors should be cautious on unsolicited emails and SMS advising to buy or sell securities and trade only on the basis of informed decisions.Investors may please refer to the Exchange's Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) issued vide circular reference NSE/INSP/45191 dated July 31, 2020 and NSE/INSP/45534 dated August 31, 2020 & vide notice no. BSE 20200731-7 dated July 31, 2020 and BSE 20200831-45 dated August 31, 2020 and other guidelines issued from time to time in this regard.View more information on Investor's Attention“Investors may please refer to the Exchange's Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) issued vide circular reference NSE/INSP/45191 dated July 31, 2020 and NSE/INSP/45534 dated August 31, 2020 & vide notice no. BSE 20200731-7 dated July 31, 2020 and BSE 20200831-45 dated August 31, 2020 and other guidelines issued from time to time in this regard.”Members are also advised to display the following messages on their respective websites under a separate banner “Advisory for investors”:Attention Investors!Beware of fixed/guaranteed/regular returns/ capital protection schemes. Brokers or their authorized persons or any of their associates are not authorized to offer fixed/guaranteed/regular returns/ capital protection on your investment or authorized to enter into any loan agreement with you to pay interest on the funds offered by you. Please note that in case of default of a member claim for funds or securities given to the broker under any arrangement/ agreement of indicative return will not be accepted by the relevant Committee of the Exchange as per the approved norms.Do not keep funds idle with the Stock Broker. Please note that your stock broker has to return the credit balance lying with them, within three working days in case you have not done any transaction within last 30 calendar days. Please note that in case of default of a Member, claim for funds and securities, without any transaction on the exchange will not be accepted by the relevant Committee of the Exchange as per the approved norms.Check the frequency of accounts settlement opted for. If you have opted for running account, please ensure that your broker settles your account and, in any case, not later than once in 90 days (or 30 days if you have opted for 30 days settlement). In case of declaration of trading member as defaulter, the claims of clients against such defaulter member would be subject to norms for eligibility of claims for compensation from IPF to the clients of the defaulter member. These norms are available on Exchange website at following link:BSE | NSE.Brokers are not permitted to accept transfer of securities as margin. Securities offered as margin/ collateral MUST remain in the account of the client and can be pledged to the broker only by way of ‘margin pledge’, created in the Depository system. Clients are not permitted to place any securities with the broker or associate of the broker or authorized person of the broker for any reason. Broker can take securities belonging to clients only for settlement of securities sold by the client.Always keep your contact details viz. Mobile number/Email ID updated with the stock broker. Email and mobile number is mandatory and you must provide the same to your broker for updation in Exchange records. You must immediately take up the matter with Stock Broker/Exchange if you are not receiving the messages from Exchange/Depositories regularly.Don't ignore any emails/SMSs received from the Exchange for trades done by you. Verify the same with the Contract notes/Statement of accounts received from your broker and report discrepancy, if any, to your broker in writing immediately and if the Stock Broker does not respond, please take this up with the Exchange/Depositories forthwith.Check messages sent by Exchanges on a weekly basis regarding funds and securities balances reported by the trading member, compare it with the weekly statement of account sent by broker and immediately raise a concern to the exchange if you notice a discrepancy.Please do not transfer funds, for the purposes of trading to anyone, including an authorized person or an associate of the broker, other than a SEBI registered Stock broker.”Precautions for clients dealing in OptionsClients/Investors are advised to avoid below-mentioned practices:Sharing of trading credentials – login id & passwords including OTP’s.Trading in leveraged products like options without proper understanding, which could lead tolossesWriting/ selling options or trading in option strategies based on tips, without basic knowledge& understanding of the product and its risksDealing in unsolicited tips through WhatsApp, Telegram, YouTube, Facebook, SMS, calls, etc.Trading in “Options” based on recommendations from unauthorised / unregistered investmentadvisors and influencers.










​







Close modal






































