







House Loan EMI Calculator - Online Demat, Trading, and Mutual Fund Investment in India - Fisdom







































 












Skip to content



















Products







                          Stocks
                        








                          IPOs & more
                        








                          Mutual Funds
                        









                          Pension Funds
                        




Private Wealth

Resources







                          Research
                        








                        One Percent Academy
                        








                          Blogs
                        








                          Calculators
                        





Company







                          About us
                        








                          Careers
                        








                          Contact us
                        







Login
Download app















Blog 

 Calculators 







Calculators











 

 




 







 


House Loan EMI Calculator




Deepak 

Written by - Deepak 




February 7, 2022						
						5 minutes					






















 
Introduction
Having your own home is one of the biggest dreams that a person has. It is a milestone in their life but not an easy one to achieve. The real estate market was stagnant for many years but is one of the main pillars of the economy. The government has also aimed at providing affordable housing to the citizens of the country but even with government aid, for many people taking a loan for purchasing a house is inevitable. This loan is then repaid in easy monthly installments throughout the tenure of the loan. 
Given below is the meaning of home loan EMI and a home loan EMI calculator.
What is a house loan EMI?
A home loan is a loan that is taken for the purchase of house property or construction of a house on a property. This loan is a long-term loan in nature usually up to 20 to 30 years tenure. The rate of interest is also among the lowest in loan categories. Like any other loan, a home loan should also be repaid by the borrower in equal monthly installments known as EMI. The frequency of playing EMI is determined as per the agreement between the borrower and the lender at the time of getting the loan. It is then paid at such pre-determined frequency at the fixed date and interval through many options like post-dated cheques (PDCs), auto-debit from the bank account of the borrower, and net banking transfer. 
What is the formula to calculate house loan EMI?
When we take a home loan, the bank executives inform the borrowers of the EMI that they have to pay every month to repay the loan. The amount of EMI is calculated using a standard formula. This formula involves the borrowers providing three basic inputs i.e., the amount of loan, the tenure of loan, and the rate of interest. The formula for calculating the EMI is given below. 
EMI = P x r x {(1+r)^n/ [(1+r)^n-1]}
In the above formula, 
P = Principal
r = Rate of interest (where ‘r’ is represented as r/12/100 which is a per month rate)
n = Tenure (in months)
In order to understand the calculation of home loan EMI, let us consider an example. Mr. A has taken a home loan of Rs. 50,00,000 from a leading bank at the rate of 7% per annum for a tenure of 20 years. The amount of EMI that has to be paid by Mr. A for this loan will be calculated using the above formula. 
EMI = 5000000 * 0.005833 * {(1+0.005833)^240 /  [(1+0.005833)^240 – 1]}
EMI = Rs. 38,765
The above amount derived using the house loan EMI calculator has to be paid by the borrower for the entire tenure of the loan. This amount includes the interest to be paid on the loan every month as well as the principal amount. The interest amount is calculated on the reducing balance method which means that the interest is calculated on the outstanding principal amount at the beginning of the year. 
What is the Fisdom house loan EMI calculator and how to use it?
House loan EMI calculator is available on all the lender websites. Fisdom also hosts a house loan EMI calculator on its website to provide the users with ease of calculating their house loan EMI within minutes. This tool is available on the homepage under the tab ‘Resources’ and requires the users to provide basic details of the loan to calculate the EMI. 
The loan amountRate of interestTenure of loan
After providing the above details, the tool will immediately calculate the exact EMI amount for the users and display it on their screens.  
Why is the house loan EMI calculator important?
House loan EMI is one of the biggest expenses that is incurred by the borrowers and therefore requires careful planning. This calculation is a very complex task that may not be easy for every person to understand, especially those who may not have any idea about the financial terms and their implications. As the EMI calculation is tedious and difficult, manual calculations may lead to errors. In such cases, house loan EMI calculators can reduce the efforts and can be time-saving at the same time provide 100% accurate results. Moreover, this tool is available free of cost and can be used multiple times to ensure that the users can get the exact amount of EMI to be paid at the prevailing rate of interest or in any other combination. 
Conclusion
House loan EMI calculators are the first point of reference for borrowers looking for a home loan. It is also a very good tool to compare the home loans provided by various lenders so they can select the lender that can provide the maximum amount of loan at minimum EMI.
FAQs
1. What are the various types of home loans? The various types of home loans are loans for the purchase of land, loans for the purchase of a home or flat, loans for construction of house property, loans for home repairs and renovations or extensions, balance transfer home loans, etc  2. Can Fisdom  house loan EMI be used for free? Yes. users can use the Fisdom  house loan EMI calculator on their website multiple times free of charge.  3. How is tenure represented in the formula for calculating house loan EMI? The tenure for calculating the house loan EMI is represented as the number of months in the formula for house loan EMI calculation.   4. What are the principal components used in the house loan EMI calculator? The principal components used in the calculation of house loan EMI are loan amount, tenure of loan, and the current rate of interest.   




Share the article

 

 




 







 

 










					Get exclusive content
					and expert advice
				
Subscribe to fisdom to get regular updates in the finance world delivered to your inbox each month






Subscribe




				Fisdom Story
			





Popular CalculatorsCAGR Calculator 2023
Compound Interest Calculator
FD Calculator
Gratuity Calculator – Simple Gratuity Calculation Online 2023
HRA Calculator
Free Online Tax Calculator for 2023-24 for Income Tax Slabs, – New vs Old Regime
Lumpsum Calculator
Fisdom NPS Calculator: Best free online tool for pension & annuity planning in India
Employee Provident Fund (EPF) Calculator Online
Online PPF Calculator 2023-24 – Calculate return for your PPF Account at current interest rate
RD Calculator
Retirement Calculator
SIP Calculator
Step Up SIP Calculator – Invest in Mutual Funds
SWP Calculator: Best Online Tool for mutual fund Systematic Withdrawal Plan & Tax-efficient monthly income in India
Budget 2023 Highlights: PDF Download, Key Takeaways, Important Points
 


				Popular articles
			






Large Cap Stocks – What is it, Features & Factors to be Considered              









Top Stocks Under Rs. 100              









Beta in Indian stocks – Types, Should you invest in high beta stocks?              








Related Articles









Calculators 


									National Saving Certificate Calculator Online								

07 Mar								
								7 minutes							








Calculators 


									Business loan EMI calculator – How to calculate business loan EMI?								

12 Aug								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Bike Loan EMI Calculator – Calculate amount for Two Wheeler Loan								

24 Jul								
								5 minutes							








Calculators 


									Crypto Tax Calculator								

07 Apr								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Depreciation Calculator								

03 Mar								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Gold Loan EMI Calculator								

02 Mar								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Return on Investment (ROI) Calculator								

21 Feb								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Mortgage Calculator								

21 Feb								
								7 minutes							








Calculators 


									Online Business Loan EMI Calculator								

07 Feb								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Car Loan EMI Calculator								

07 Feb								
								6 minutes							








Calculators 


									Online EMI Calculator								

07 Feb								
								5 minutes							










Download one of India's best wealth management apps
Join more than one million investors and take control of your wealth
Download app

            




















Download the Fisdom app here
       Google Play      App store  





CompanyAbout us
Pricing
Careers
Blog
Fisdom in News





ProductStock / F&O
Mutual Fund
IPO & more
Pension Funds
 



Help & SupportKnowledge Base
Contact us
Brokerage Calculator
Advisory KYC Updation
Policies
Privacy Policy
Terms
Investor Charter
Investor Complaints
Download Forms
Disclaimer
Refund
Scheme Offer Documents
Bank Details
Glossary
Regulatory Disclosure
 




Follow us:




We are well certified



SEBI Registered Investment Advisor INA200005323



BSE Registered Mutual Fund Distributor Code No:10140



IRDAI Corporate Agent Finwizard Technology Pvt Ltd CA License No:
            CA0505
            License Valid till: 19-Jun-2023



256 Bit SSL encryption security



Association of Mutual Funds of India Registered Mutual Fund
            Distributor
            ARN:103168


2023 Copyright, All Right Reserved, Built for Investors, Pro Traders &
        Beginners with Finwizard Technology Private Limited is a member of National Stock Exchange of India Limited (Member code:90228) & BSE Limited (Member code:6696 ) SEBI Registration No. INZ000209036SEBI Depository Participant Registration No. IN-DP-572-2021Mutual Fund distributor with AMFI Registration No. ARN:103168SEBI Registered Investment Advisor INA200005323Finwizard Technology Private Limited CIN number : U74900KA2015PTC080747SEBI Research Analyst No. INH000010238Registered Office AddressQueens Paradise, No. 16/1, 1st Floor Curve Road, Shivaji Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560071Correspondence/Communication AddressOffice No.1002, A wing, 10th Floor, Kanakia Wall Street, Hanuman Nagar, Andheri Kurla Road, Chakala, Andheri (East), Mumbai - 400093Tel: +91 96425 96425Compliance Officer Name : Krishna Jakkula; Email ID : compliance@fisdom.com ; +91 89519 49507For any grievances related to stock broking/dp, please write to grievances@fisdom.com,Please ensure you carefully read the Risk Disclosure Document as prescribed by SEBIProcedure to file a complaint on SEBI SCORES: Register on SCORES portal. Mandatory details for filing complaints on SCORES: Name, PAN, Address, Mobile Number, E-mail ID. Benefits: Effective Communication, Speedy redressal of the grievancesDisclaimer: Investment in securities market are subject to market risks, read all the related documents carefully before investing.Download Client Registration Documents (Rights & Obligations, Risk Disclosure Document, Do's & Don'ts) in Vernacular Language: BSE | NSEAttention Investors +Prevent unauthorised transactions in your account. Update your mobile numbers/email IDs with your stock brokers. Receive information of your transactions directly from Exchange on your mobile/email at the end of the day. Issued in the interest of investors.KYC is one time exercise while dealing in securities markets - once KYC is done through a SEBI registered intermediary (broker, DP, Mutual Fund etc.), you need not undergo the same process again when you approach another intermediary.If you are subscribing to an IPO, there is no need to issue a cheque. Please write the Bank account number and sign the IPO application form to authorize your bank to make payment in case of allotment. In case of non allotment the funds will remain in your bank account.Stock brokers can accept securities as margins from clients only by way of pledge in the depository system w. e. f. September 01, 2020.Update your e-mail and phone number with your stock broker/depository participant and receive OTP directly from depository on your e-mail and/or mobile number to create pledge.Check your securities/MF/bonds in the consolidated account statement issued by NSDL/CDSL every month. Investors should be cautious on unsolicited emails and SMS advising to buy or sell securities and trade only on the basis of informed decisions.Investors may please refer to the Exchange's Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) issued vide circular reference NSE/INSP/45191 dated July 31, 2020 and NSE/INSP/45534 dated August 31, 2020 & vide notice no. BSE 20200731-7 dated July 31, 2020 and BSE 20200831-45 dated August 31, 2020 and other guidelines issued from time to time in this regard.View more information on Investor's Attention“Investors may please refer to the Exchange's Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) issued vide circular reference NSE/INSP/45191 dated July 31, 2020 and NSE/INSP/45534 dated August 31, 2020 & vide notice no. BSE 20200731-7 dated July 31, 2020 and BSE 20200831-45 dated August 31, 2020 and other guidelines issued from time to time in this regard.”Members are also advised to display the following messages on their respective websites under a separate banner “Advisory for investors”:Attention Investors!Beware of fixed/guaranteed/regular returns/ capital protection schemes. Brokers or their authorized persons or any of their associates are not authorized to offer fixed/guaranteed/regular returns/ capital protection on your investment or authorized to enter into any loan agreement with you to pay interest on the funds offered by you. Please note that in case of default of a member claim for funds or securities given to the broker under any arrangement/ agreement of indicative return will not be accepted by the relevant Committee of the Exchange as per the approved norms.Do not keep funds idle with the Stock Broker. Please note that your stock broker has to return the credit balance lying with them, within three working days in case you have not done any transaction within last 30 calendar days. Please note that in case of default of a Member, claim for funds and securities, without any transaction on the exchange will not be accepted by the relevant Committee of the Exchange as per the approved norms.Check the frequency of accounts settlement opted for. If you have opted for running account, please ensure that your broker settles your account and, in any case, not later than once in 90 days (or 30 days if you have opted for 30 days settlement). In case of declaration of trading member as defaulter, the claims of clients against such defaulter member would be subject to norms for eligibility of claims for compensation from IPF to the clients of the defaulter member. These norms are available on Exchange website at following link:BSE | NSE.Brokers are not permitted to accept transfer of securities as margin. Securities offered as margin/ collateral MUST remain in the account of the client and can be pledged to the broker only by way of ‘margin pledge’, created in the Depository system. Clients are not permitted to place any securities with the broker or associate of the broker or authorized person of the broker for any reason. Broker can take securities belonging to clients only for settlement of securities sold by the client.Always keep your contact details viz. Mobile number/Email ID updated with the stock broker. Email and mobile number is mandatory and you must provide the same to your broker for updation in Exchange records. You must immediately take up the matter with Stock Broker/Exchange if you are not receiving the messages from Exchange/Depositories regularly.Don't ignore any emails/SMSs received from the Exchange for trades done by you. Verify the same with the Contract notes/Statement of accounts received from your broker and report discrepancy, if any, to your broker in writing immediately and if the Stock Broker does not respond, please take this up with the Exchange/Depositories forthwith.Check messages sent by Exchanges on a weekly basis regarding funds and securities balances reported by the trading member, compare it with the weekly statement of account sent by broker and immediately raise a concern to the exchange if you notice a discrepancy.Please do not transfer funds, for the purposes of trading to anyone, including an authorized person or an associate of the broker, other than a SEBI registered Stock broker.”Precautions for clients dealing in OptionsClients/Investors are advised to avoid below-mentioned practices:Sharing of trading credentials – login id & passwords including OTP’s.Trading in leveraged products like options without proper understanding, which could lead tolossesWriting/ selling options or trading in option strategies based on tips, without basic knowledge& understanding of the product and its risksDealing in unsolicited tips through WhatsApp, Telegram, YouTube, Facebook, SMS, calls, etc.Trading in “Options” based on recommendations from unauthorised / unregistered investmentadvisors and influencers.










​







Close modal






































